---
layout: paper
title: "Characterization of Biological Absorption Spectra Spanning the Visible to the Short-Wave Infrared"
year: "2025"
shortref: "Gruensfelder et al. J Vis Exp 2025"
nickname: absorption-spectra-jove
journal: "Journal of Visualized Experiments"
volume: 
issue: 215
pages: 
authors: Gruensfelder HDR, Shofu F, Michie MS, Berezin MY, Shmuylovich L, O'Brien CM
image: /assets/images/papers/2025-jove.jpg
pdf: 
pdflink: https://www.jove.com/t/67403/characterization-biological-absorption-spectra-spanning-visible-to
github: 
pmid: 39878934
pmcid: 
f1000: 
figshare: 
doi: 10.3791/67403
category: paper
published: true
peerreview: true
review: false
tags: [infrared, spectroscopy, absorption, imaging, JoVE]
datestring: "January 10, 2025"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract

For noninvasive light-based physiological monitoring, optimal wavelengths of individual tissue components can be identified using absorption spectroscopy. However, because of the lack of sensitivity of hardware at longer wavelengths, absorption spectroscopy has typically been applied for wavelengths in the visible (VIS) and near-infrared (NIR) range from 400 to 1,000 nm. Hardware advancements in the short-wave infrared (SWIR) range have enabled investigators to explore wavelengths in the ~1,000 nm to 3,000 nm range in which fall characteristic absorption peaks for lipid, protein, and water. These molecules are difficult to visualize in the VIS-NIR and can provide label-free sources of biological contrast. Furthermore, lower SWIR absorption has been observed for melanin, the primary chromophore responsible for skin pigmentation. In vivo optical devices like clinically standard pulse oximeters have been found to have reduced accuracy in people with darkly pigmented skin, possibly because of the stronger melanin absorption in the VIS range. Thus, error associated with skin pigmentation could be reduced by using devices operating in the SWIR. Optical instrument design is facilitated by the understanding of the absorption properties of core tissue components from the VIS to the SWIR range. This article describes protocols and instrumentation for obtaining VIS-SWIR absorption spectra of common tissue absorbers: oxygenated hemoglobin, deoxygenated hemoglobin, melanin, water, and lipid.
